# Database (and backend)

This repository is part of the [cda](https://github.com/AKArien/cda) project.
# Migrations

The database uses (Versioning)[https://gitlab.com/depesz/Versioning] to handle migrations.

Patches are written in the `migrations` directory and added to `timeline.sql`. This file simply tries to execute every migration, with Versioning telling apart what was already applied and what should be ran. As such, applied to any database, it yields the same result wether it is clean or stopped somewhere along the history. Thus, it’s history must not be modified without accepting that things will break.

The one-time setup is `init.sql`. Run it once per postgres instance. Note it does not call timeline.sql itself.

To apply migrations, simply connect to your database and run :
```sql
\i timeline.sql
```

# Auth

PostgREST views and functions are authenticated by a JSON Web Token. A user is considered authenticated if the `verification` claim is verified and matches a record in an unlogged table to implement a session mechanism. This is enforced with postgREST pre validation function.

# Schemas

## Public and REST api

The project uses postgREST to propose an authenticated REST api. Elements listed here have a corresponding endpoint generated by postgREST.

### Tables

reports (time series)
- time pkey timestamp
- watcher id pkey
- diff
-

sites
- id pkey
- name text
- human-readable information text
- perimeter path

local admins
- id pkey
- site id fkey
- location point

watchers
- id pkey
- gateway fkey
- location point
- signature

### Functions

login(access text, pass text, session duration int default 3600) -> text
Returns the JWT of the session. The session duration can be requested by the client, but will be constrained to the `max_session_time` field of the access.

change_pass(pass text) -- need session -- not implemented yet
Changes the password of the access. If it was a forced change, lifts restrictions in session and flips the `force_change_pass` flag of the access.

logout() -- need session -- not implemented yet
Immediatly ends the current session.

### Triggers, CRON and automatisms
